---
sip: "0001"
title: Standardization Protocol for Computing Providers on Swanchain
author: Leo, Sonic, Will2z
status: Draft
type: SRC
created: 2024-04-28
discussion: 
spec-pr: 
---

# SRC-0001: Standardization Protocol for Computing Providers on Swanchain

## Simple Summary
This proposal introduces a standardized protocol for Computing Providers (CPs) on Swanchain, ensuring efficient user interactions. CPs, serving as resource suppliers and service providers, have their essential information securely maintained on-chain. The protocol standardizes interactions between users or platforms and CPs, facilitating processes for resource acquisition, task distribution, and task status tracking, etc.

## Abstract



## Change Motivation




### Parties
 - MP



## **Backwards Compatibility**

This FIP does not change actors behavior so it does not require any Filecoin network update.

## **Security Considerations**

This FIP does not touch underlying proofs or security.

## **Incentive Considerations**

No change to incentives. In the future this could support retrieval incentive.

## **Product Considerations**

No change to product considerations, except that increased content discoverability and retrieval capability is a net improvement to the Filecoin network.

In the near future, the product should include controls on what contents can be retrieved, so Storage Providers would have the ability to turn off content that they don’t want to be accessible for retrieval.

## **Implementation**
computing provider:
## **Copyright**

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

